So this is
the Polymorphism Challenge video,
and we're continuing on
from the previous video.
So, let's now talk about what we're
actually going to have included in this
challenge.
So I'm gonna type out what
we're proposing to do.
Okay, so here is the challenge.
So, we're gonna go back and
use the car analogy.
We did that, of course,
in previous videos.
So, create a basic class called Car.
Now this is a generic class that
other classes are going to subclass.
So, this base class should have a few
fields that would be appropriate for
a generic car class.
Engine, true or false, cylinders, as in
the number of cylinders in the engine,
number of wheels, those types of things.
And you can certainly come up with
some more, that's just three examples.
The constructor should
accept two parameters.
The parameters would be the number
of cylinders of the car and
the name of the car.
Then you should also initialize the other
parameters as well in that constructor.
You'll also want to create
appropriate getters for
those fields so
that they can be accessed elsewhere.
And you need to create a few methods like,
startEngine, accelerate, and break.
Putting a simple message to
output to the screen, just so
you can confirm which class you are in,
and which method is being invoked.
And show a message, as we've said,
for each of those in your base class.
Now, after that,
create three subclasses for
your favorite vehicles, and they're gonna
subclass the Car class, essentially.
So, you then want to override
the appropriate methods that you
created in the Car class to
demonstrate polymorphism,
so you understand what that's doing and
how it works.
And you'll also want to put
the same messages that you put
in the base class in each
of those other classes, but
make the message different, so
that you can see where it's being called.
And, as I showed you in the last video,
also put all classes in this one
Java file, just for this example.
And that Java file will be the one that
we're reading in the main package, or
the main Java file, I should say.
All right, so
see if you can figure that out.
Go away and
do your best to complete the challenge.
And when you're ready to come back and
see what I've done, resume the video.
So pause the video now, and
I'll see you when you come back.
Okay, how did you go?
Did you figure out the challenge?
Let me show you my solution.
So what I'm gonna do is start
off first with our Car class, so
we had to create a base car class.
So I'll just call it class Car, like so.
We need to create a few fields.
So I'll do private boolean engine.
That's whether it actually
has got an engine.
private int cylinders.
We have a name, private String name.
And lastly, we also want to set the number
of wheels, so private int wheels, like so.
We need to create a constructor,
which should initialize the cylinders
in the name,
which are passed to it as a parameter.
And then to just set those other
ones to those values that we've got
indicated below.
Okay, so I'm gonna create a constructor,
and I'm going to use the two
parameters which we talked about
were cylinders and also the name.
They're the only two parameters.
The other two, we're gonna set
the values manually, like so.
And so it'll be this.wheels equals = 4.
And this.engine, we're just gonna set
to true, in case it's all the cars that
we're using, this Car class and
all the subclasses will be set to true.
We need to create a getter.
So let's create a getter for each of
those, in case we need to access them.
Actually, we won't create one for
engines seeing as though it's a little bit
meaningless because we've
actually got that set to true.
And actually the same for wheels, because
wheels are set to 4 no matter what anyway.
So we'll just leave those out and
do the other two.
Next, we need to create
a few extra methods,
simple methods that will
show some basic features.
So we're gonna use startEngine,
accelerate, and brake, so
I'm gonna create those methods.
public, they're gonna return a String for
each, startEngine, no parameters.
And we're just gonna put return, and what
I'm gonna do is just put the word car and
a dash and a greater-than sign,
just to signify that we're actually in
the Car class, and we'll put startEngine.
Then likewise for the accelerate method,
public String accelerate(),
return Car -> accelerate(), like so.
And lastly, we'll do the brake one,
if I can type, public String brake,
return Car -> break().
So there's our basic class now,
pretty basic as you can see.
So just confirming, we've set the fields
up, we've initialized the constructor,
and we've set the other values.
We've hard-coded wheels and
engine as well, and
we've created appropriate getters,
and we've created our three methods.
And we're also showing a message for
each of those classes, so that's good.
So now what we need to do is create three
subclasses for your favorite vehicles,
one for each vehicle,
then override those other methods, and
put some prints in there.
And then we just want to show
them working in the main method.
So to do that, let's create one first.
So, I'm gonna create a class for
Mitsubishi.
So, class Mitsubishi extends Car, like so.
And we're getting that error now,
and the error is,
There is no default constructor available.
And the reason for that,
of course, is that we've actually created
a constructor up here with parameters.
And because we're doing that,
we now need to specify a parameter.
So, what we're gonna do there is create
our constructor, Constructor, and you
can see it's automatically accepting those
two parameters cylinders and the name.
And it's calling the super,
which is gonna call, of course,
the superclass's constructor to
initialize it there and save our values.
So that's the constructor done.
Next, we need to override
those three methods so
we can just use our override function,
Override.
So let's go through, and
we now need to override three of them, and
note that you can also override getters.
We're not going to do that, but you
could actually do that if you wanted to.
I'm gonna select those three methods,
startEngine, accelerate, and brake, and
override those.
You notice the default option
that IntelliJ gives us there is
super.startEngine, and that's a way
to call the super functions, so
in some cases, you may wanna do that.
You might want to do some processing in
that base class for here, for startEngine,
and then provide your functionality
after that, over and above that.
So I'm gonna leave that out, but
that would be how you would call it if
you wanted to call that before
actually adding your own code.
So what we're gonna do there, though,
is I'm just gonna take a copy of this.
And I'm gonna paste it there.
But I'm gonna change that, and
I'm going to call that Mitsubishi.
And I'll do the same for the other two.
We'll just move the screen a little bit so
the little messages down at
the bottom don't impact us.
And of course I need to change
then the name of the method, so
it's gonna be accelerate and brake.
Okay, so if we just do a test run of that
there just to make sure that it's working.
So firstly, we could put,
Car car = new Car().
And we can just put, (8, "Base car").
And then we can put, car.startEngine(),
car.accelerate(), car.brake(), like so.
Move it up a little bit.
If we run that now, we should just see the
basic messages from the base Car class.
And we're actually doing a return there.
The reason that's not working is
we should probably change that.
That's got a return, probably should have
changed that to output then in that method
just to save us a bit of time,
but that's all right.
What we'll do, we can fix that,
we can go like this.
We can put System.out.println and
wrap that around the method, and
what that will do is actually print
whatever was returned from that method.
In this case, will be our message,
so if you do the same for
that one, and then the same for
this one, like so.
So now we've wrapped the actual method
call inside of System.out.println,
so we're actually just printing out
whatever the result is coming back
from that method.
So, I'm gonna click on Run again.
We should see that now on the screen.
We can now see that that's working,
Car -> startEngine(), Car -> accelerate(),
Car -> brake().
So likewise, for Mitsubishi,
Mitsubishi mitsubishi = new Mitsubishi().
Then we can put the number of cylinders.
With that one,
we might say it's a 6 cylinder,
and we'll say it's an Outlander VRX 4WD.
And we can do something similar to that,
we could call those methods.
And we'll just change the mitsubishi
there, sort of the car to mitsubishi,
so we're actually calling
the right method.
We'll run that.
And we can see now we're now calling the
mitsubishi method, mitsubishi.startEngine,
mitsubishi.accelerate, mitsubishi.brake.
So that's good, so we can now do
the same for our two other cars.
So what we could actually do,
we should be able to do this,
we can actually click on that and
click on Refactor > Copy.
We can actually copy an entire class.
So, it's asking us what
the name of the old class is.
We've already selected,
I should say, the old class.
What is the new name going to be?
And it's gonna create
a copy of that class, and
it's also asking where
the destination is going to be.
So I'm gonna click on Ford, or
type Ford, I should say, and OK.
Now you see what this has done by default?
It's actually pretty well done
everything that we wanted it to do.
And we can actually add
a bit more code here.
So it's actually working, but
it's created a separate class.
By default, it's created a separate class,
which I won't go back and change that now.
But this is a quick way to copy and
create a new class,
as you can see,
instead of doing all that typing.
So, just another way of doing it.
We can actually then go back to our
Main class, down on the bottom here.
We should be able to do
exactly the same with that.
But this time, what we're going to do,
we're going to just rename this by
selecting the variable,
clicking on Refactor > Rename.
And if I change that now to ford,
you can see as I'm pressing delete,
that's working, which is good.
That's a quick way of changing it.
Then we'll change this to Ford as well,
and change the constructor name,
the class name, I should say.
So, and obviously change the actual
car name as well, Ford Falcon.
That's about the only one I
know off the top of my head.
Run that.
Ford is now working, as you can see.
And if we didn't want to, I think there
might be an option to do this, but
just click on, right-click Refactor,
I think we can click on Inline > Inline
all references and remove the class.
So, let's just try that and
see what that does,
because we can always undo it, Refactor.
Interesting, that's done something,
you can see what it's done there.
It's actually created a class
within the constructor.
So, you can see this part
here is being created.
That spot's called an inline class, so
it looks like it's actually a parameter.
You might be wondering, well,
why isn't it separate to this one here?
Like this class for
Mitsubishi is completely separate, and
we've typed it all in there.
That's another way to create a class.
It's called creating an inline class, and
we're creating it right at the point
where we're actually initializing it.
So, I wouldn't recommend that in many
cases, but one place you'll see that
quite often is in Android applications for
things like click listeners.
In other words,
when you're wanting to create an event or
actually place a listener on a particular
button on the screen and for
it to actually do some action, perform
some action when that button is tapped,
that's very common for
that, but we'll save that.
Later in the course,
we'll talk more about inline,
but that was just another thing I wanted
to show, another way of doing it.
So I'm going to undo that, and I'll just
press, in this case, Cmd+Z, and say,
do you wanna undo that?
So I'm gonna click on Yes, and you can
see down at the bottom what it's done.
And probably now, if we have a look at
our classes, we've actually got our
classes back there again, so it's undone
that change, which is pretty nice.
So, I'm gonna leave that in there anyway.
Now anyway, that was just another
way I wanted to show you of
how to quickly change something.
So, let's just go back here again
up to our Mitsubishi class, and
this time we're gonna do a copy,
Refactor, we'll do a Copy.
And this time we'll create
a class called Holden.
Like so.
And now we're gonna do a right-click.
I will right-click that,
click on Refactor, and
try Move, Move to package, and
let's try this Make in a class of.
Let's choose our Main class.
This is another way to create one.
And click on Refactor.
And you can see by doing that,
it's largely got this right.
But it's actually created the class, and
it's moved it from what was external back
into this particular Java file, which
is a good step in the right direction.
And we could do the same
thing with IntelliJ.
We're going back to our Ford class,
right-click that,
Refactor > Move > Make inner class of,
and we'll choose Main again.
And notice that says Holden in Main now,
so
it's telling us it's actually a class
within the Main class, and click on OK.
Click on Refactor, and then we're
going to have Ford class in there.
And what we can do then, just to change
this a little bit, we'll go back here.
And we'll copy them both,
take them out of there, and
actually I'll make a bit of space here.
You can see what we're doing.
If you go back up to the top
again there now, and
just below that second definition,
I'm gonna paste the classes in there now
and get rid of the word static, which now
are not appropriate because we're not
actually in the Main class anymore.
And I'll take it back out
of there again as well.
So now we should have our three classes
like I originally was going to do,
Mitsubishi, Holden, and also Ford.
And we can just do lastly,
I think the last thing we could do
there is just copy that and paste that.
Do a rename, right-clicking on
the variable for Ford, Refactor > Rename.
We'll call that Holden.
Press Enter to accept the change.
And then we'll just change this one,
Holden.
And we'll put Holden Commodore,
which is a model within
the Holden car class.
Run that.
Whoops, and we did we do?
We made a mistake here.
We copied the class, and we didn't change
the actual messages that are showing
on the screen for the last one.
So if we go back and have a look,
we can probably see that we've got
Mitsubishi in the Holden class.
We didn't actually update that, so I need
to click on that and paste that in because
obviously we want the word to appear to
tell us which class we're actually in.
So I can click on Run that.
We can now see that
that's working as well.
So, that's our polymorphism challenge.
And just one last thing I want to show you
is there's actually a way within Java,
instead of having to remember the class,
if you want to output the class,
you can actually retrieve the class name.
So we can do something
like getClass.getName.
getSimpleName is the way to do it.
And then we can put +, like so, and
that would be another way
of actually doing it.
So, we could then just do the similar
thing for the rest of them.
We can go just copy up into that part.
And we'll just do this just for
the Holden class, just to show you.
It's just another function within Java
to actually get it to do the work for
you instead of you having to hard-code it.
So what that's doing now is getting
the class, and that's looking
at where the code is executing,
which class it's currently executing in.
getSimpleName is a way just to
retrieve the actual class name.
So if we do that, we should find that it
should still say Holden -> startEngine for
each of those things, so run that.
And you can see that it still says Holden,
so that's another feature that's built in.
And you might be wondering,
where did that getClass come from,
because that's obviously a method.
And where is that coming from?
So, we can actually click on that to see.
I'm holding down Cmd on my Mac.
And notice that straightaway
it's showing you Object,
remembering that all
classes that you create in
Java are actually extended
automatically from the Object class.
So that's one of the purposes
of the Object class is to give
you functionality like this,
among other things,
to do some base things like returning
the name of the class and so forth.
And Java uses that internally
to figure things out.
So, that's another good way of
figuring out which class you're in.
And in later videos, we'll actually
be talking more about that and
how you can actually write some code.
You can actually check
the top of Object and
do a comparison to say,
is this class of type whatever?
So it's just another way of giving you
more flexibility in your programming.
But we'll be doing that
later on in the course.
Okay, so
that's the polymorphism challenge, and
that's actually the end of
the object-oriented programming section.
But what I've got coming up in
the next videos is I'm going to
create a big challenge for you.
Because the last two sections we've
learned a lot about object-oriented
programming, but it's time to put
your skills to use because what we're
going to do is create a much larger
application than we've created before.
We're going to use all
the concepts of object-oriented
programing that we've learned
in the last two sections.
So we're going to use all
those major aspects and
create a bigger application to hopefully
really solidify your understanding
of object-oriented programming.
So, we'll see you in that next
set of videos where we start
our big object-oriented challenge.